If you're tired of complicated
strategies or feeling overwhelmed at the
open, then this video is for you. This
setup starts at 9:35.
You draw a fence around one candle. You
wait for price to break through that
fence and then come back and you can be
done before 10:00 a.m. and get on with
your day. No stress, no guessing,
no all day commitment. and let me show
you exactly how it works. I'm Stephen.
I'm a former market maker and arbitrage
expert and I teach simple setups
and rule-based approaches to trading.
The open is the noisiest part of the
day. Price is moving fast. It feels like
there's opportunity everywhere. And for
most of you, it feels like you're
missing out. But what's actually
happening in those first few minutes is
the market is sorting itself out.
Overnight and early morning orders
coming into trading desks are getting
filled. News is getting priced in. Early
positioning is taking place. It's not
direction yet. It's basically discovery.
That's what's going on. And when you try
to trade discovery,
you're usually not reading the market
correctly.
You're guessing along with everyone else
as to where we're going to go after the
open. And that's why most traders take
their worst trades of the day in that
first 15 minutes.
And often
when those are losing trades, that sets
them up for a bad rest of the day. What
I want to show you today is a way to use
that first candle, that first five
minutes of price action to give yourself
a clear framework for the whole open.
Two levels. We're going to mark one
sequence to watch for and a defined
entry
with defined risk, which you should
always have.
That's the fence bar setup. And it works
whether the market is gapping up,
gapping down, or just opening flat.
Here's the setup, and it all starts with
drawing your fence.
This is a chart, a five minute chart of
the Q's. The only thing I have on my
chart is my anchor line, which is the 20
SMA. Before I get into this, if you want
a copy of my cheat sheet for how to do
the opening power bar trade, which I'll
be talking about a little bit in this
video, just comment open in the comments
below and I'll get you that cheat sheet.
It's not something I'm teaching in this
video,
but it's something I taught in my best
performing YouTube videos.
For this setup,
again, the fence bar setup, you want to
draw in your fence
after the first five minutes. So, all
you're marking is the high of that first
candle and the low of that first candle.
Right? This is at 9:35
a.m. Eastern time or say it's 9:36 when
you're drawing in these lines.
That's your fence. Just two lines.
The high is the top rail in your fence
and the low again of that first candle
that you'll be drawing in at 9:36.
Right. Right after this first fiveminute
candle closes, the low is the bottom
rail in your fence. Here's what that
fence tells you. That first candle, that
first five minutes
captured everything the market was
sorting out at the open. You don't have
to worry about jumping in in that first
five minutes. This was addressing the
overnight gap like we had today.
It's addressing news reactions in this
first five minutes. This is where the
early positioning takes place. When it
closes, you have a picture of where
buyers stepped in and where sellers
pushed back on those buyers.
Those two levels don't disappear, right?
Price is going to come back and test
them. And when it does, it's going to
make a decision. Here's what you're
watching for in this setup. A fiveminute
candle that closes completely outside of
the fence. This one doesn't close
outside. This one doesn't. This one
doesn't. Nothing until 10:05.
Right at 10:05.
Again, this is the chart for today that
I'm looking at in the cues. You get a
close outside of the fence.
Right? It closed above your top rail.
It's not a wick and a move back in to
the fence.
It's a move outside and a close. Right?
This is literally where it closes
right here
outside of your fence. That happens. The
market is making a statement. It's
trying to choose a direction. And for
those of you who trade my power bar
trade, not the opening power bar, just
the regular power bar trade, you'll
recognize this move actually as a power
bar. I'm not teaching again that trade
in this video. This is a different
setup, right? This is a power bar move
though on a fivem minute. But just with
this candle that closes outside, the
market's again telling us it's choosing
a direction. But what we're going to do
at this point, which is different than
my power bar setup, is we're going to
wait for a retest of our fence. I'm
going to zoom in on this so we can see
it very clearly.
This next candle
is the retest.
Note how it wicks into
our fence area, right? crossing that top
rail
and then moves back out all in the same
fiveminute candle. That's a retest.
When this retest candle closes,
that is the entry for this trade. Right?
So, this candle closes
right here at 60711 in the cues
right there.
That's the close of our retest
and that's also the entry point for our
long trade that's closing outside of our
fence. So far, all we've done, again,
super simple. Mark the high and low of
the very first candle,
which gives us a top rail and a bottom
rail. Look for a candle that closes
outside
of our rails and then look for a retest,
a wick. We're looking for that moves
into our fence area and back out all in
the same candle. That's going to give us
our entry. Right. Once we have our
entry, we're going to use about half.
And yes, you can use a Fibonacci. You
can measure this. You can measure the
numbers, but we're going to use about
half.
Right? If you have
a clear support or resistance area,
which in this case it's right here,
right? these two wicks. That's what I
would use
as a place to put the stop. Right? It's
about halfway into our fence. So, a stop
just under that.
So now we're looking at risk
of this size
from where we entered our trade
to our stop which is again about 50%. If
there's a clear support or resistance
area
obviously if it's a long we're looking
for support. That's where we want to
place our stop.
taking profit.
Again, we're going to make it super
simple and super clear. We're looking
for two times our risk. For those of you
who use my power bar indicator, you'll
recognize this, right?
Two R or two times our risk. So, all I'm
going to do is take this amount of risk.
I'm going to copy this
two times
and place it one, two. That's our
target. That's where we exit the trade.
In any trade that I do, I'm looking for
one and a half to two times
my risk as a profit target.
Right? That's a a first target. If I can
get more, if it gets to this point and
it looks like a really good long setup
is forming up here, then
I'm not going to just exit at two. But
for this trade, to keep it super simple,
I want two times
my risk. And that's the exit, which
would have exited here on this trade.
So, let's run through this one more
time. Again, super super simple trade to
put on at or near the open when you guys
tell me, traders tell me all the time
they're panicked at the open. They're
doing things wrong at the open. Super
simple setup.
Five minute candle. Mark the high and
the low of the first candle. That's our
fence. Price breaks out of the fence. It
almost always comes back to retest that
fence.
Most traders are taking this breakout
and panicking because they think the
trade is now going against them. So with
this trade, we're going to wait. With my
power bar trade, this would have been
the entry at the top of this. That's my
indicator for the power bar trade.
Again, I'm not teaching that in this
video, but it's linked to in the
description below.
That would be the entry. And then you
would just sit through this pullback and
take profit, right? That's two times the
profit from this entry. I'm going to
take that off of the screen
again because I'm not teaching that in
this video. But what often happens if
someone takes the power bar trade again
and it starts going against you,
you panic and panic out of the trade and
don't wait for the stop which would have
been down here. This makes it a little
bit easier and is again a trade on the
five minute chart. I'm usually teaching
the power bar off the two-minut.
This is a trade for the open, right? So,
this isn't a trade for later in the day,
and it's taking advantage of price
action at the open and taking advantage
of a pullback that often happens. I like
to see my anchor line moving with the
trade in the direction of the trade,
just like I do with my power bar. and
I'm going to be reluctant to take the
trade if my anchor line is moving in the
opposite direction. If it's moving with
it or flat, then I'm good with this
trade. If it's moving against it, maybe
I'm reducing size at that point if I do
take the trade. The fence gives you the
levels. The anchor line, my 20 gives you
some context.
Again, this is the 20 period simple
moving average showing for me when the
market is in balance. And you'll see
that eventually the market or whatever
stock it is is going to catch that 20
again. But this retest entry is giving
you a defined entry with defined risk.
And when both of these line up, my
anchor line and this trade that I just
described, you have a very clear reason
to be in it. Right? You're trading with
trend,
clearly defined entry, clearly defined
exit, clearly defined
stop. Right? When I say exit, profitable
exit, and a clearly defined stop. For
those of you who follow me, you know
that I have something I call the opening
power bar strategy, an indicator which
is included
with my power bar strategy.
That strategy is successful. Here's an
example of it. I'm not again I'm not
teaching this, but this is an example of
that strategy. And you can see it took
uh this is the cues on a twominute chart
on in February the 20th, the 23rd,
Monday the 24th. You can see that
strategy is successful, right? It
entered a long here, a takerit, a short
here, a takerit, along here, a takerit.
That's what the TP is. The problem with
the strategy is it doesn't always fire.
Right? If we look right the next couple
of days, it didn't trigger. We didn't
get a trigger for this opening power bar
strategy. So, what this strategy does is
give you something to look for if you
don't have an opening power bar strategy
trigger. This is another way to approach
the open. And on a fiveminut chart, I've
had many people ask me, I prefer the
five minute, the two's too fast. This is
perfect
for those who like to trade the five
minute chart as opposed to the two. So
when the opening power bar strategy
doesn't trigger,
there's no reason to become frustrated
and just go out and try to pick a
direction that we're going at the open.
This setup gives you that. It's why you
can do on days when that primary setup
on the twominut isn't giving you
anything to work with. Same discipline,
right? Clearly defined entry, clearly
defined stop, clearly defined take
profit, just a different framework,
the fence bar setup. So this was today
and let me walk you through
this trade
quickly.
the past several days in the cues.
You get the open,
you have the 20 is falling. We've gapped
down. The first bar finishes.
I'm going to make it bigger.
This bar finishes below the lower fence
rail. This one goes back in. So, we
don't have a trigger for our trade. This
one finishes below
and this one is our trigger.
It moves into our fence line and then
falls back out in the same candle.
Here is our entry
right where this candle closes.
So this is the short
again. Look back 50% into our fence,
which would be right around here.
Again, you can throw on you the
Fibonacci. I'll just do it here to show
you guys. Basically
there. Okay. So, there's 50%.
Note how it also lines up. Let me move
this arrow up a little bit.
Note how it very closely aligns with the
top of this candle,
our entry candle. So basically just
above that entry candle, which is at the
50%, that's what I would use. If the 50%
was a little bit higher, say it was up
here,
I would drop it down to just above this
entry candle. Right? So, but let's use
this, you know, 50% mark, which happens
to be again just above this candle. So,
this is the risk we're looking at.
This size risk, this amount of risk
we're looking at.
And we're going to just multiply that
again times two,
two of these. And this is the target
that we're basically looking for.
is basically here which we don't quite
get to. This is an important point okay
that I want to point out and that is the
location of our anchor line of my anchor
line which is the 20. Remember I've
talked a lot about being far away and
close to the anchor line in my other
videos. When I get a power bar, I want
it to be at or near the anchor line, and
that's where it's forming.
When you're far away from the anchor
line,
you have less probability of getting two
Rs or two times your risk
on this trade and and basically on any
trade, right?
the further away you go, you're
stretching that rubber band.
So, you want to pay particular
attention, right? This is using the
anchor as context. If you're far away
and you had a big gap when this trade
triggered, this short triggered, you
have a big gap. The 20 is catching up,
but it's still a decent amount away from
your entry. So, you're entering a trade
with the 20, right? Right, we're going
with trend, but we're far away. And you
can see what happens. Uh, you know, a
little bit further on, you get basically
a double bottom. A little better than a
double bottom. You get a higher low
here, right? You get this low and then a
higher low
and then you get the snapback and we
move back up above the 20. So what I do
is if I'm far away from the 20, I lower
my expectations a little bit for the
profit. So if I get close
to two times to 2R, then I'm going to be
quick to lock in profit or quicker than
when I'm closer to the 20. And if I see
this little hairpin turn happening,
that's where if I held and didn't exit
at this point
right at this low, I'm going to be
exiting here for basically one R profit
on this trade.
All right, so I I drew these in again,
these lines. Let me show you. March 2nd,
our fence is here. Upper rail, bottom
rail. Um, I'm going to delete these for
a second and just draw those in for you.
Uh, we get an exit
from our fence here, but we don't get
the retrace and the move back above in
this candle. We get a move above our
fence
here,
but it began inside, right? We want to
begin outside, get the retrace here.
This is our candle, right? It begins
outside.
We get the retrace into our fence and
then we end outside of the fence. This
is our entry candle. This is our
trigger.
We're going to buy as this candle closes
right here.
Right. So that's our buy level at
basically let's call it 60490.
to be exact. So that's our entry.
Our stop is generally 50% in. Right? You
said that's the rule of thumb.
If I have a large candle like this, and
I get again get this question all the
time with the power bar trade. This is a
big stop. I'm not going to use that big
of a stop. That's about 50%.
Where does it make sense in this
trade? Is it setting up to have a stop?
What do you guys think? I'd say about
here, right? Just under
this support.
So, that's where I would put my stop for
this trade. That makes the stop or that
makes our risk this much.
And we're shooting for again two times
our risk.
So here
that's two times our risk. Our target is
right around uh 60934.
We did get to that level. This one took
a little bit longer. It was 12:30. Um
the trade was entered
at
basically here 10:05.
Obviously, that's not exactly what, you
know, I'd be looking for ideally
if we're looking for a trade near the
open and sort of timing perspective. But
sometimes you, you know, you have to
take what the market gives you and the
market just isn't, you know, on our
let's be finished by 10:30 time frame.
But you can see the trade works, right?
It never gets near the stop, which is
down here, which is, you know, again,
not the 50% level. I moved it up where
it made sense, right? I'm always looking
to put a stop where it makes sense. So
again, rule of thumb about 50% into our
fence
you here, but that is a large stop. So
it makes sense just below support. And
again, this trade took more time, but
played out and, you know, worked in the
end. And you can see with this trade,
I'm not as concerned or I'm near the 20
when I'm taking this. So, I'm not as
concerned
about a snapback
to the 20 because I'm still close to the
20. It took more time. So, it wasn't
ideal from that perspective,
but you could have gone for the two
times profit and ended up getting it.
Whereas in the last trade, like I said,
the 20 my anchor line is context.
So in the last trade, I was far away
from the 20, which makes me aware that
there's going to be that snapback at
some point.
In this case, we're just riding the 20,
riding the trend. So even though it took
more time, I would be a little more
patient with this trade riding the 20 as
opposed to being, you know, far away and
having that [clears throat] concern that
you're going to get that snapback.
Go back to the 27th.
Here's the issue that you'll run into
when this doesn't trigger. And that's
when you get a move,
right? This is when it's not going to
work.
because you don't get the trigger. And
that's when you get a move outside
of the fence like this and then it moves
back in. So, no trade here, no trade
here because you're not moving outside
of the fence.
Move outside of the fence, but then you
don't get the retrace and the move
higher.
So, you don't have a trigger,
right? That's going to be the Achilles
heel right of this setup when it doesn't
work is the no retracement into the
fence.
Go back another day
uh the 26th
which was a Thursday
and you can see again I'll draw this in
really quickly.
There's your fence, top rail, bottom
rail. There's your move outside, but
doesn't close outside. There's your move
outside, but doesn't close outside.
There's your move outside and the close
outside of the fence. Right? So, that's
the first thing you're looking for. And
here's your retracement here. Touches
the fence. That's your entry
right here. When this bar closes,
this bar, right?
When that closes
outside of your fence after hitting and
retesting our fence, that's the short
entry
halfway in or again, look at these two
candles.
That's your stop. So, this is the kind
of risk you're looking at. You're
looking at that much risk.
and you're looking to make two times
that risk. One,
two,
two. And you can see obviously you could
have made a lot more on on this trade
this day, but very consistent. Again, if
you're trading my opening power bar
strategy,
it's a very good trade, but it doesn't
fire all the time. This is just a
another setup you can use. Um, again on
a five minute chart, a little bit
different than most of the videos that
I've done so far on YouTube. You can see
the consistency. You can see when it
doesn't fire and you don't get a trade,
that's going to happen. But over the
past, what is this? One, two, three,
four,
five days. Four times it triggered. Four
times it was a winning trade. One time
it didn't trigger at all. Here's what I
want you to take away from this. The
opening doesn't have to be chaotic.
That first five minute candle is telling
you something. It's drawing a boundary,
right? It's drawing our fence. And when
you know how to use that boundary,
when you can draw the fence in, wait for
the break, wait for the retest, check
the anchor line that is heading in your
direction.
You're not guessing anymore. You have a
plan. And that plan is what separates
you as a trader from those who survive
and make money in that first half hour
to hour of trading
and those that blow up their entire day
because they're stressed and making
errors at the open. You don't need to be
glued to the screen the entire day. You
don't need a dozen indicators.
You get two levels. the fence again. One
sequence
of a break of the fence, the retest, you
got very clear rules and that is what
this setup gives you. So tomorrow
morning when the market opens,
let that first five minute candle close.
Draw the fence around it. Watch the
anchor line to see if it's aligning with
your trade direction.
And if price breaks the top or bottom
rail, comes back and retests it, but
finishes outside, that's your entry. You
know what your stop is. Look for two
times your risk. And now you've got
clean levels, clear rules with that
defined risk. If you want my cheat sheet
again on my opening power bar trade,
which I'm not teaching in this video,
but I'll link to a video about it at the
end of this video. If you want that,
press
type open in the comments below. Uh, if
this video is helpful to you, please hit
like and subscribe. Share it with any
trader friends that you want to be nice
to. And thank you for watching.